if you want to know
what i think about people tearing down
statues
in the year 2020 if you want to know
what i think about people
burning down buildings breaking windows
looting stores covering buildings with
graffiti
boarding up windows destroying the
downtown core of
various cities if you want to know what
i think about that
ask yourself one simple hypothetical
question
and think it all the way through
how would you feel about these same
methods
if they were being used by your worst
enemies
how would you feel about these same
methods
if they were being used in pursuit of
political objectives
that you abhor how would you feel
if they were being used against you
and you had to call on the police to
save your life
to save your community
i hear a lot of people today complaining
that there's some terrible crime against
humanity being committed by
the police by federal agents
in the city of portland oregon in the
city of seattle washington
in trying to restrain what are frankly
violent and destructive protests
i hear a lot of that
i have a long memory
i can remember the year 2017
when there was a right wing political
protest called the
unite the right rally seems like a long
time ago
2017. at that rally
there were racists white supremacists
anti-semitic people neo-nazis there were
a lot of people
a lot of political commentators here on
youtube
asking why can't the police step in why
can't the police do something
to restrain this protest this rally
which one has been more destructive
which one is more genuinely terrifying
the unite the right rally or what's
happened in portland oregon
seattle without going into even other
examples of cities where buildings have
been burned down
so on and so forth which one was more
disruptive
to use a polite term
if you think that what's happening in
downtown portland right now
is permissible for them in the name of
their cause
then you believe it's permissible for
the right-wing extremists
in the pursuit of their cause also
if you think that left-wing protesters
can shut down downtown seattle can
occupy several city blocks of the city
how would you feel about it
when it's right-wing protesters if you
think
that pro-abortion protesters can do this
how are you going to feel when it's
anti-abortion
protesters if you think anti-racist
protesters can do this if you think it's
permissible
how are you going to feel when it's
pro-racist
white supremacist anti-semitic
protesters
this is not a hypothetical question
within the last few months yes
some statues of slave traders
have been torn down some statues of
historical figures who were notorious
for their racism
their participation in slavery for doing
terrible things some have been
torn down by anti-racist
progressive left-wing protesters you
know what else happened
to get revenge there were right-wing
white supremacist protesters who went
down and
tore down statues some of them
commemorating slaves
abolitionists anti-slave
activists
which which one which one are you
against
are you only opposed to members of the
public
tearing down statues when it's
convenient for your side
are you only opposed to violent angry
mobs
carrying torches when it's convenient
for your side on a really deep level i
look around the whole political spectrum
and it seems to me like 98 of you people
still have the mentality
that the ends justify the means
like the ends that these protesters are
pursuing in portland or in seattle
are so pious so hallowed so morally good
that it justifies tearing down a statue
build burning down a building
looting pillaging breaking windows
graffiti
political discourse the possibility
of having a political community of any
kind
begins only when and where
this might makes right mentality ends
only when we let go of
this delusion that the ants justify the
means right so that that's the
difference
in in the mind not it's not the left
wing the whole center
the whole moderate middle of the
political spectrum thinks this oh well
these people want to accomplish
something good like the end of racism
so that justifies these methods these
means this destruction this burning has
happened right
and it never even occurs to them that at
the other end of the political spectrum
there were anti-abortion protesters who
really believe that they're saving lives
they believe they're saving lives and
saving souls and they're
not just serving the public they're
serving god and man
they believe they have the most hallowed
moral cause you think
you think if you make this permissible
if you normalize this
you think there won't be anti-abortion
protesters who have
real numbers and real money and real
guns
you think they're not willing to do the
same thing you think we're not going to
see anti-abortion protesters who occupy
seattle and set up a zone like this chad
zone
who occupy portland for 40 days you
think
you think it's only one set of
motivations that can be paired to these
methods
you have to think through how you would
feel
if these same methods were being used by
your worst enemies and don't just engage
in a single stage of analysis
engage in a full life cycle analysis
really think it through over time
think about how that changes in society
over decades think about how it changes
you and your life
think about how you'd feel when [ __ ]
like the people at the unite the right
rally or
anti-abortion catholic fanatics when
they're coming for you or when they're
screwing up your neighborhood when it's
even
even just you maybe own a coffee shop
and you've got to shut down and can't do
business because of these fanatical
protesters
you're going to call the cops you're
going to you're going to
you're going to be a hypocrite the all
these people who today are making
excuses for the violence of the
left-wing anti-racist protests do the
same people in 2017 were saying
why can't the police intervene why can't
the federal authorities intervene
when it was right-wing [ __ ] having a
much less disruptive
protest and this is going to happen
again unrest in portland oregon and
seattle washington overnight
as protesters set fires and destroyed
property the black lives matter march in
seattle started peacefully but turned
violent as demonstrators targeted the
king county youth detention center
some used sledge hammers to shatter
workers cars
they slashed all four of my tires they
broke my back window out
you know i just got off work i want to
go home
police and federal agents use pepper
spray and tear gas against the
demonstrators
shots rang out people can be heard
screaming in the streets
there is an alternative
to mob violence there is
an alternative to just letting whoever
is passionate enough
whoever has the numbers and the guns
to tear down a statue go out and tear
down statues
the alternative is democracy
i am the last person to glorify
ancient athens most of you
will never understand how horrible
life was in ancient athens for the vast
majority of people
the vast majority of the time
slavery racism
and religion in ancient athens most
people don't
really want to think through how
terrible their religion was in ancient
athens
partly because we're all ashamed of how
terrible christianity was afterwards
ancient athens was a dystopia
there's no doubt in my mind but you know
what
there were a few things a few things of
tremendous importance that they
demonstrated for us
and they even demonstrated the problems
and the shortcomings
with democracy for us you can have
a meeting at which people actually
debate these things
openly and vote to decide
whether a statue should continue to
stand in the middle of the public square
whether it should be taken down and
destroyed or maybe it should be removed
and put in a museum
where it's part of an exhibit about the
history of slavery
that's something that could be debated
and decided
openly and you could let you let all the
people who disagree with each other
every political extreme attend and have
a voice and you know what
a lot of them would feel ashamed of
themselves when they actually stand in
front of the crowd and are laughed at
and the the arguments that they made up
in their own mind that seemed so
convincing
or that maybe seemed so convincing when
they were on the internet with a small
number of like-minded people agreeing
with them
that standing in a public forum standing
in the agora standing in the pinx
really being in the marketplace of ideas
and having to defend that
in a q a session in a genuinely
democratic forum in
the context of direct democracy suddenly
it seems like their ideas aren't so
convincing anymore or they realize what
a tiny percentage of people
find their arguments convincing there is
no doubt
in my mind that if you have a genuinely
democratic society in a genuinely
democratic
process today in 2020 the vast majority
of people
are anti-slavery it's not a fringe issue
the vast majority of people
are anti-racism
why don't we have more direct democracy
in our society it's because a lot of us
are terrified a lot of people
are terrified of what will happen when
you can just
bring people together and debate openly
hey you know what
male circumcision did you ever think
about it do you ever really think about
whether this should be legal or illegal
hey you know what cows they don't have
sex anymore
do you know what farmers actually do to
make cows reproduce here's a photograph
of it let's debate this
there are so many evils
underpinning the norms of our society
that fall apart under just
momentary scrutiny under the briefest
sort of open
examination reflection airing of ideas
and debate that can't be supported that
again the excuses made for these things
would be laughed at if we had
direct democracy if we had the panics
the agora if we had that
theater of ideas where people could come
and argue and debate and you know what
in athens they made a lot they made a
lot of mistakes
there's a great example preserved
forever in thucydides
where the people of athens decide to
carry out a massacre
against their enemies and they basically
say well if we don't massacre them if
they had won the battle they'd massacre
us
and the very next day i think it's less
than 24 hours later they convene again
to debate this and they decide they were
wrong they sent off one boat to carry
off the massacre and the very next day
they sent off another boat and tell them
to row as fast as they can to arrive
before and say no no no cancel the
massacre
you know you do get to see
in the history of athens the
disadvantages as well as the advantages
of direct democracy and there are a lot
of tough questions to be asked
about what would really happen in our
society if these things could be decided
through debate but on an issue like this
if you're comparing mob rule
if you're comparing this the the process
you have going on right now
in the streets of seattle in the streets
of portland oregon
if you compare that to what ancient
athens
figured out there's no contest
the solution to our problems is neither
going to be blind rebellion
nor blind conformity but some sort of
progress
towards meaningful direct democracy